When I think of what the internet will become in the future I often times think of the topic of net neutrality and the internet becoming a net unneutral world. What this means is instead of paying a standard internet price that allows you easy access to all sites, you must pay for each site you want to access. However, it will also have glitch, long loading pages, or  links that won’t always work when you want to access the site even after paying. The reason for this is that the providers of access to these sites will do this so you will pay more to make more profit off of users. Providers do so knowing we are so dependant on these sites in our everyday lives and we will pay any cost to access them since they make our lives easier, entertain us and keep us connected with others.  

In this project, I wanted to demonstrate what this type of site would look like. Last semester I explored this topic and made a similar concept using HTML and CSS to illustrate this net unneutral internet, but I wanted to challenge myself and remake it differently using coding I’ve learned over the past two semesters. What I ultimately used to create this project was p5, JSON and responsiveVoice. 

The site is split into different states and 4 different scenarios will occur when the icons for each site are clicked. The project starts with a slow loading page which uses objects to create the moving globe and loading bar. I wanted to make this loading page slow because as we live in a net neutral world we don’t have to wait for slow pages, we often click out of them. However, in a net unneutral world, we have no choice to wait because it's our only option to access our beloved sites. This state switches to the page where users would find the different sites they can access through paying ( I chose to just give 6 sites for example purposes). The user would have an account with a balance which would allow them to pay for the sites. I wanted to again demonstrate glitches by creating a “fake cursor” which is an image that moves slowly behind the actual cursor which is hidden. When the user hovers over the icons with the fake cursor, prices for each are displayed (I decided to use random amounts for this project). Once the icon is clicked, the price displayed is deduced from the account balance, however, the amount can never go under the amount left in the account. If there aren’t enough funds left in the account to pay for the site, an alert will advise the user.  Once clicked and paid for: 1 of 4 scenarios will occur at random. 
Scenario 1: The actual website will load. Scenario 2: A loading page that doesn’t go anywhere appears. Scenario 3: an alert pops-up that says that site can’t be accessed at the moment (even after it is paid for). Lastly, Scenario 4, a random page will appear with an article on net neutrality appears. I took only part of an this article to use as an example, however, I found it appropriate to choose a text that discusses this idea of net neutrality and the importance of keeping our internet net neutral or else it will become something like this project is trying to portray. This random page used responsiveVoice to read the article out loud and as the fake cursor hovers over the text the lines jitter. These lines of text are taken from an external JSON file and are made into objects so each line is independent and can jitter and be different colors. I took inspiration from the “tickle” code I found online and integrated it into my code for the jitter effect.

To conclude, I used this project to express what a net unneutral world would be like in my mind. It is not an exact replica, however, it shows how these sites will be an expense for users and what we take for granted in our net neutral world. Users would be scammed and provided glitchy, and problematic links which would lead to paying more for the sites we want to access. 

