Artist Statement

The Internet is infinite with all the information one may need as well as may not. We rely on it to find the news, information on any subject with a quick search, updates on those around you through the use of social media and so much more. We also rely on it for entertainment purposes and one can encounter hundreds of videos a day on social media and Youtube that they don’t necessarily search for, they’re just shared by others or suggested. The danger in this is that we never know what will pop up; sometimes things that are inappropriate, gross or unsettling. Adults are aware of these dangers and know to click away and often get over the shocking content within a few minutes. Today tablets and phones allow even easier access to the internet, however, these devices are also easily accessed by children. This allows them to be blindly exposed to these dangers. We want to think of the internet as a safe place with good people putting out appropriate content, however, it is not the case, and there are people who prey on children’s innocence by making attractive “kids” videos with manipulative and sinister messages. 

This problem is the topic of the article “Something is wrong on the internet” by James Bridle. The article discusses youtube videos targeted for children that have hidden messages, inappropriate content or are parodies of already existing cartoons. The child, not knowing any better, think they are clicking on a video of their favourite cartoon, for example, Peppa Pig, except it is a more graphic version, for example, Peppa Pig getting tortured by the dentist instead of being comforted. He also uses examples of videos of beheaded cartoon character and channels, that have seen been removed, that had video content exemplifying abusive or explicit to their young audience.

Based on this subject of exposing children to unsettling videos or hidden message and not being aware of what will come up next, it reminded me of the subReddit page called 50/50. This page is disturbing because it has links to either something good or bad. For example, the link can be described as “puppies or a car accident”, and you don’t know which of the two will pop up until you click it. I took this concept as inspiration for this project and creating a similar game but for children. It has the attraction of a children’s game; colourful and simple. It starts with two doors, upon being clicked they expose an image of a cartoon, either a creepy one or a friendly familiar one. For instance, it could be an image of a demon face or mickey mouse. Once a door is clicked it is replaced by the cartoon, the unclicked door disappears, the background changes and a phrase is said. If the cartoon is good, it shows a colourful background, and a high pitch cartoon-like voice says a positive phrase. If the cartoon is bad, it is a dark background with a deep male voice saying a sinister phrase or demand. This image appears on the screen for 3 seconds until the next round of doors. To make this project I used HTML, CSS, jQuery UI, and responsiveVoice.

The aim of this project was to show the dark side of the internet targeting children and this game is a good example of this. Even though it seems innocent at first look, it has a hidden part that can traumatize or manipulate children with unsettling imagery and sinister orders such as “kill” and “steal” and soliciting them to misbehave.

